true craftsmen are not in short supply
at New Horizons ten of our longest term
associates have 155 combined years of
experience in our company their skills
cross a wide segment from service to
cabinet craftsmen multiple production
areas and our primary designer engineer
whether you're utilizing one of our
tried-and-true floor plans or wish to
design your own dream coach we're
qualified to assist you in the custom
design phase our designer definitely
knows the business and he's been with
New Horizons for 21 years designing
hundreds of coaches you're truly in good
hands with our team of well-qualified
and tenured associates and we feel
confident that every customer receives
our very best effort
co-owners Phil and Karen don't stop
there
they've implemented several associate
recognition programs above the rim
quarterly award employee suggestion
program and a staff newsletter that all
recognize associate achievements both
personal and professional the new
horizons craftsmanship shows itself in
many layers throughout our first-class
luxury units from those areas that are
under wraps like the chassis x' wiring
plumbing and lamination to more visible
sign of craftsmanship like cabinetry and
elegant interiors our units reflect a
quality rarely seen in the industry
today starting in the welding Department
the new horizons chassis is in a class
all its own we pride ourselves on
building a heavy-duty frame specific to
each and every design for our fifth
wheels we place at the front three
stabilizing steel beams on each side to
curtail excessive pull on the kingpin
while this adds weight it also increases
safety longevity and overall durability
of our units in particular on our
top-of-the-line model the majestic our
chassis frame rails are comprised of a
12-inch steel i-beam over four inch
structural steel tubing chassis
squareness tolerance of only three
eighths inch provides excellent tracking
behind the tow vehicle assuring the
smoothest tow in the industry
more ride axles and independent
suspension complete the undercarriage
build hydraulic disc brakes as well as
ABS brakes are also options all features
unique to the industry and all pioneered
by New Horizons when the chassis is
complete it moves to our flooring area
where the entire chassis is covered with
a laminated floor including the basement
and slide-out floors consisting of 5/8
inch plywood flooring polystyrene foam
insulation layer and a birch overlay
which ensures the finished floor is
smooth and feels solid over every inch
of the coach solid floors that don't
squeak are achieved through our
lamination process we don't cut corners
either the finish flooring extends over
the entire frame running under cabinets
in closets and slide rooms everywhere
floor coverings carpet wood perma stone
are then applied prior to installation
of walls
our electricians and plumbers are busy
at work ensuring the structures are in
place for fixtures appliances and
appropriate equipment it is also at this
point that cabinetry is positioned
throughout the coach another innovation
unique to new horizons is the attention
to detail and our customized wiring
harnesses all wiring is neatly loomed
circuitry labeled and color-coordinated
for ease of use owners appreciate this
commitment to quality our electricians
make as they install the wiring
necessary to support all the electrical
systems in our coaches tubular aluminum
is used to provide the structural
framework for our walls floors and roofs
pieces are welded together double welded
for strength and durability
then side walls and roof undergo a
similar lamination process to the
flooring pressure rolled laminate
construction layers of the walls
consists of exterior fiberglass tubular
aluminum structural framework
constructed on-site one-and-a-half
inches of high-density closed cell
insulation and interior wall panel tough
durable efficient made to last the roof
is constructed using one piece of
fiberglass that includes a four inch
layer of polystyrene foam to provide
added overall insulation a full layer of
foam is always installed above
air-conditioning ducts so they cool more
efficiently next slide rooms are built
and attached to the coach and then final
finishing touches begin this is an
exacting process taking several days
because at new horizons we want to get
everything just right
more finish cleanup and quality checks
occur once the coach returns from custom
painting at CDI and for City Iowa all to
assure the unit is ready to meet its new
owner we invite you to watch part two of
quality craftsmanship visible
distinctions to learn more about what
distinguishes new horizons from other
manufacturers
Oh